Hi there. This video is about how to
use the make file to make your programs.
It's actually very simple. There's only a few
things you really need to know, but we're
gonna dig into, what Make does, a little
bit, just to kind of familiarize yourself with
it. If you have a folder, and most
of our assignments are going to come with
Makefiles built into the starter code. If you
have a make file and you type make,
well, it runs a bunch of commands that
are built into that make file to actually
compile your program using g c c. So
for instance, when I type make, it ended
up typing g c c dash g dash
o zero dash blah blah blah, and it
compiled our program. And in this case, can
say hello, and it actually prints out hello
world in three different languages. So what is
a make file and why do we use
make? Well, make files are nice if you
have programs that have multiple different program code
files like multiple different c files, like you'll
notice up here I have helloworld.c and hello
language dot c and we also have a
hello h file like that. And make files
make it so that you can compile your
code and what it does is it only
compiles what it needs to based on whether
or not you've made changes to the file,
since the last time you made, the program.
So, so that's the the basically what you
need to know is type make. You can
also type generally make clean which will clean
up any of the temporary files that may
have been stored as you when you've been
compiling. And it basically cleans the program and
makes it so that it does have to
recompile everything. So for instance, if we type
make, it will make our program and then
hello will exist. And then if we type
make again, it will say hello is up
to date, meaning that we don't actually need
to compile again. The one thing you do
need to remember is when you're using make
files, after you make any changes to a
program file, text file, a dot c file
or header file, you always need to rerun
make so that it recompiles your programs. I
don't know how many times I've seen students
make some changes to their hello world program
And, so watch this. If we type hello
and then hello dot c, oops, that's not
it. If we look at, hello languages dot
c and we go and we say, oh,
maybe we wanna put an exclamation point after
world like this and we make the change
and we save it and whatever and then
we try to write hello again and we
say, wait, there's no exclamation point. Well, the
reason is because we never made the program
again. So you have to make and it
recompiles it for you and then if you
type hello, then the exclamation point will be
there. So you have to remember to do
that. Now, very quickly, if we wanna look
at the actual make file itself, this one's
a very, simple one. The ones we use
for CS one zero seven are generally more
advanced, but this gives the basic idea here.
Comments start with a hash and, then we
define a couple variables in here. In this
case, the variable is the compiler we're using,
which is GCC, and then some flags, which
are just the options we're gonna pass to
to the compiler. Okay? And then the next
line here is the actual, it says if
you're going to do hello, then it says
these three files are the ones that can't
change. And if they're not changed, don't need
to rerun it. But if any one of
them changes, you need to rerun the following
command down here. Okay? And it's just a
bunch of dependencies that set it up. The
one interesting thing to note is that this
has to be a tab. It can't be
a bunch of spaces. So if you're ever
writing your own make file and it gives
you these syntax errors in there, think about,
oh, did I make all my tabs correctly?
It's just a weird part of, Nick. But
it basically says, okay, if all these, if
something's changed in any of these files, run
this command. Well, it's dollar sign parenthesis c
c means just replace this with what c
c is, so it says g c c
and then then this is replaced with the
flag, so dash g dash o zero etcetera.
And then the rest of this gets compiled.
And, that's that in the clean command set.
Now by the way, could also type make
hello, it'll say hello is up to date.
Make clean removes hello and removes any object
files which we'll talk about when we get
to that in class. And then if I
type make hello again, it will make it.
I believe that the first thing that gets,
run when you type make is the first
one that's that's here. So that's that's that.
So anyway, using make fairly straightforward. If you
wanna dig into how to actually modify your
make files, there are lots of examples online
on how to do that. Thanks.